
HONEY, SOY, AND GINGER BRAISED TOFU
Sodha, Meera. East (p. 175). 

Serves 2

10 oz extra-firm tofu 
2 tbsp soy sauce 
1½ tbsp honey (or agave syrup if vegan) 
3 cloves of garlic, crushed 
½ inch ginger, peeled and grated 
1 Bartlett pear, grated 
4 green onions, finely chopped, whites and greens separated 
2 tbsp toasted sesame oil 
1½ tsp gochujang paste 
2 tbsp canola oil 
a handful of black and white sesame seeds, to serve

Lightly press the tofu block between your hands over the sink to get rid of as much water as possible, then wrap in paper towels and leave to one side. 

Place the soy sauce, honey, garlic, ginger, pear, green onion whites, sesame oil, gochujang, and 1 tablespoon of water into a bowl and whisk to mix. Remove the tofu from the kitchen paper and cut into ½-inch-thick slices. 

Coat the bottom of a large non-stick frying pan with the canola oil and line a plate with a couple of sheets of paper towel. Heat the oil until it reaches smoking point and fry the tofu slices for 8 minutes until golden on both sides. Remove the tofu to the plate, allowing the paper to absorb some of the excess oil. 

Remove all but a tablespoon of oil from the pan. Add the soy and honey sauce and stir for a minute, then put the tofu back into the pan and cook for 5 minutes until the sauce reduces and becomes glossy and thick. 

To serve, place the tofu in a serving dish, pour the sauce over the top, and sprinkle with the sesame seeds and remaining green onion.

Notes:
* 1 package tofu, but double the sauce
* Oil doesn't need to be at smoking point, and cool down before doing up the sauce.

***

LEMON OAT BARS
Kieffer, Sarah. 100 Cookies (p. 247). Chronicle Books LLC. Kindle Edition. 

*Filling*
Two 14 oz [396 g] cans sweetened condensed milk 
1/2 cup [120 g] lemon juice 
3 tablespoons heavy cream 
1 tablespoon lemon zest 
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
Pinch salt 

*Crust*
2 cups [284 g] all-purpose flour 
1-1/2 cups [120 g] rolled oats 
1/2 cup [100 g] brown sugar 
1/4 cup [50 g] granulated sugar 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
2 sticks [227 g] unsalted butter, at room temperature

Adjust an oven rack to the middle of the oven. Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. Grease a 9 by 13 in [22 by 33 cm] pan and line it with a parchment sling. 

FOR THE FILLING In a large bowl, whisk together the sweetened condensed milk, lemon juice, heavy cream, zest, vanilla, and salt. 

FOR THE CRUST In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle, mix the flour, oats, brown and granulated sugars, baking soda, and salt on low speed to combine. Add the butter and mix on medium speed until the mixture is crumbly. 

TO ASSEMBLE

1) Press half of the oat mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan. Bake for 10 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven and carefully spread the filling over the crust. Sprinkle the remaining oat mixture evenly over the top. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until the filling is set and does not jiggle and the crumbly top is light golden brown. 

2) Transfer the pan to a wire rack and let cool. Place the pan in the refrigerator and chill for 4 to 6 hours. Slice the bars and serve. The bars can be served cold or at room temperature but keep best in an airtight container in the refrigerator for about 3 days.


***

https://www.cooked.com/uk/Rukmini-Iyer/Quadrille-Publishing/S-is-for-Sri-Lankan/Fish-and-seafood-curry/Chilli-fish-curry-recipe

Chilli fish curry
By Rukmini Iyer
"S is for Sri Lankan"

Serves 4


4 tablespoons	vegetable oil
2 teaspoon mustard seeds
20 curry leaves
4	garlic cloves, minced
4 in ginger, peeled and minced
4	green chillies, deseeded and finely sliced
2	onion, finely sliced
1 small box [200g] tomatoes, roughly chopped
1 can [400ml] coconut milk
4 fillets [600g] cod or pollock fillets, skin removed
2 teaspoon salt
2	lime, juiced


Heat the oil in a large frying pan on a medium heat, add the mustard seeds, curry leaves, garlic, ginger and chillies and stir-fry for a few seconds until the mustard seeds pop. 

Add the onion to the pan and stir-fry on a medium heat for 10 minutes until the onion is softened and golden brown. Add the tomatoes and cook for a further 5 minutes before adding the coconut milk.
 
Simmer for 2–3 minutes, then add the fish, scatter with the salt. Spoon the sauce over the fish, cover the pan and cook for 5–6 minutes until the fish is cooked through. 

Taste the sauce and season with more salt if needed and the lime juice. Serve with rice.



***
Stir-Fried Broccoli with Sichuan Peppercorns
Start to finish: 30 minutes | Servings: 4
https://www.wgbh.org/dining-in/2019/11/25/spicy-stir-fried-broccoli-with-sichuan-peppercorns


1⁄3 cup plus 2 tablespoons water, divided
3 tablespoons unseasoned rice vinegar, divided 11⁄2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon white sugar
1⁄4 teaspoon kosher salt
3 medium garlic cloves, finely grated
11⁄2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper flakes
2 scallions, white and pale green parts minced, dark green parts thinly sliced on bias
11⁄4 pounds broccoli, florets cut into 1-inch pieces, stems peeled and sliced 1⁄4-inch thick
3 tablespoons peanut or grapeseed oil, divided
2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil
1⁄2 to 1 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorns, toasted and finely ground


INSTRUCTIONS:

In a small bowl, stir together the 1⁄3 cup water, 2 tablespoons of the vinegar, the soy sauce and sugar. In a second small bowl, stir together the remaining 2 tablespoons water and the salt. In a third small bowl, combine the garlic, ginger, pepper flakes and minced scallions.

In a large skillet over medium-high, combine the broccoli, salt water and 2 tablespoons of the peanut oil. Cover and cook for 1 minute; the water should reach a simmer. Uncover and cook, stirring occasionally, until the broccoli is crisp-tender and browned in spots, 8 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a large plate.

Return the skillet to medium-high, add the remaining 1 tablespoon peanut oil and the garlic-ginger mixture. Cook, stirring, until fragrant, 10 to 15 seconds. Add the vinegar-soy sauce mixture and simmer, stirring and scraping up any browned bits, until slightly reduced, 2 to 3 minutes. Return the broccoli to the skillet and stir to coat.

Off heat, stir in the sesame oil, remaining 1 tablespoon of vinegar and 1⁄2 teaspoon of the ground Sichuan peppercorns. Taste and add more peppercorns, if desired. Serve sprinkled with the sliced scallion greens.

Notes: Don't over toast the Sichuan peppercorns. It's better to err on the side of lightly toasted, as the peppercorns become unpleasantly bitter if overdone.

To enhance their flavor and aroma, the team toasted the peppercorns in a small skillet over medium heat for about 2 minutes, let them cool, then ground them to a fine powder in a spice grinder.

***

Vegetables in Spiced Coconut Milk Recipe
Maya Kaimal

Serves 6



 2 peeled waxy potatoes
 2 peeled carrots
 3/4 cups sliced onion
 2 fresh green chiles, serrano or Thai, split lengthwise

Ground Masala:
 4 teaspoons coriander
 1/2 teaspoon cumin
 1/4 teaspoon cayenne
 1/8 teaspoon black pepper
 1/8 teaspoon turmeric
 1/4 teaspoon fennel seeds, finely ground with a mortar and pestle or coffee grinder
 1 (1-inch) piece cinnamon
 3 whole cloves
 1 1/2 teaspoons salt

 1 cup cauliflower florets
 1/2 cup cut up green beans, 1-inch lengths
 1 cup coconut milk
 1/2 cup frozen peas
 2 tablespoons vegetable oil
 1/2 teaspoon mustard seeds
 2 dried red chiles
 12 to 18 fresh curry leaves
 1 1/2 tablespoons finely chopped shallots or onion

Directions
Cut the potatoes and carrots into 1/2-inch cubes. In a large pot combine the potatoes, carrots, onions, green chiles, ginger, ground masala, fennel, cinnamon stick, cloves, salt, and 1 cup water; bring to a boil. Reduce the heat, cover, and simmer until the vegetables are tender, about 10 minutes.
Add the cauliflower, beans, and 3/4 cup of the coconut milk, cover, and continue cooking until the cauliflower is tender but not mushy, 5 to 10 minutes.
Add the peas and the remaining 1/4 cup coconut milk and when it simmers remove from the heat. Set aside.
In a small frying pan, heat the oil over medium high heat. Add the mustard seeds and cover. When the seeds pop, toss in the dried red chilies, curry leaves, and shallots and fry until the shallots brown. Pour the mixture over the vegetables and stir to combine. Taste for salt.

***

Mango Avocado Salad
https://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/avocado-and-mango-salad


 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
 3 tablespoons fresh lime juice
 2 teaspoons agave nectar (or honey)
 1 teaspoon ground cumin
 1 teaspoon ancho chile powder
 1 jalapeño, seeded and diced
 Kosher salt
 Freshly ground black pepper
 2 10-ounce heads of butter lettuce, washed, dried and torn into bite-sized pieces
 3 mangoes, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch dice
 1/4 cup finely diced red onion
 1/2 cup fresh cilantro leaves
 2 avocados, halved, pitted and cut into 1/2-inch dice
 
 
To prepare the vinaigrette, whisk together the olive oil, lime juice, agave nectar, cumin, chile powder and jalapeño in a small mixing bowl. Season with salt and pepper. Set aside.

In a large mixing bowl, toss the lettuce leaves, mango, red onion and cilantro with vinaigrette. Divide among 8 bowls and top with the avocado. 


***
***

Cucumbers, Celery, Apricots, and Pistachios

Holmberg, Martha . Six Seasons: A New Way with Vegetables . Artisan. Kindle Edition. 

Serves 4

1½ pounds cucumbers (a mix of varieties if possible) Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 4 medium celery stalks (leaves reserved) ½ cup dried apricots, quartered 1 garlic clove, smashed and peeled ¼ cup red wine vinegar ½ cup pistachios, lightly toasted and chopped ½ cup lightly packed mint leaves ½ cup lightly packed flat-leaf parsley leaves ½ cup lightly packed basil leaves ½ cup lightly packed celery leaves (if you have them) ¼ teaspoon dried chile flakes Extra-virgin olive oil ‘Peel the cucumbers if their skins are tough or waxed. Trim the ends of the cucumbers, halve lengthwise, and scoop out

the seeds. Cut the halves crosswise on an angle into very thin slices. Put the cucumbers in a colander and toss them with 1½ teaspoons salt. Set aside for at least 20 minutes to extract their water and give them a “quick-pickled” flavor. Meanwhile, cut the celery crosswise on an angle into very thin slices and soak in ice water for 10 minutes. Drain, pat dry, and pile into a serving bowl. Put the apricots, garlic, and vinegar in a small bowl. Let the apricots plump for 10 minutes. Pat the cucumbers dry and add to the celery, along with the pistachios, mint, parsley, basil, and celery leaves (if using). Remove the garlic from the apricots and discard it. Add the apricots and vinegar to the bowl, along with the chile flakes and ¼ cup olive oil. Season with black pepper, but don’t add more salt yet because the cucumbers will have absorbed a bit. Toss, taste, and adjust the flavors with more salt, vinegar, chile flakes, or black pepper until it’s bright and zingy. Finish with another drizzle of olive oil. Serve right away.


***

Raw “Couscous” Cauliflower with Almonds, Dried Cherries, and Sumac

Holmberg, Martha . Six Seasons: A New Way with Vegetables . Artisan. Kindle Edition. 
Serves 4 to 6 3 ounces dried tart cherries, roughly chopped (about ½ cup) ⅓ cup red wine vinegar ¾ pound cauliflower or Romanesco 3 scallions, trimmed (including ½ inch off the green tops), sliced on a sharp angle, soaked in ice water for 20 minutes, and drained well 2 teaspoons ground sumac ½ teaspoon dried chile flakes Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper Extra-virgin olive oil 1 cup almonds, toasted, half very roughly chopped and half more finely chopped ½ cup roughly chopped flat-leaf parsley leaves

½ cup mint leaves Put the dried cherries and vinegar in a small bowl and leave to plump for at least 30 minutes. If the cauliflower still has outer leaves and they look fresh, chop them. Cut the stem from the cauliflower and cut the head into small florets. Chop the stem into small chunks. Add some of the stem chunks to a food processor; don’t fill beyond halfway. Pulse to chop the stems finely, scraping down the sides a couple of times, and then dump into a large bowl. Finish processing the stems this way, and then do the same with the florets. The goal is to create dry, crumbly cauliflower bits that resemble couscous. Add the scallions to the bowl with the cauliflower. Add the cherries and soaking vinegar and toss to mix well. Season with the sumac, chile flakes, 2 teaspoons salt, and generous twists of black pepper. Taste and adjust the salt, chile flakes, and vinegar until the cauliflower is highly seasoned and well balanced. Now add ¼ cup olive oil, all the almonds, the parsley, and mint and toss well. Taste again and add more seasonings and oil if you like. Serve cool or at room temperature.

Holmberg, Martha . Six Seasons: A New Way with Vegetables . Artisan. Kindle Edition. 


***

Green Bean, Tuna, and Mushroom “Casserole”

Holmberg, Martha . Six Seasons: A New Way with Vegetables . Artisan. Kindle Edition. 

Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper Extra-virgin olive oil 2 garlic cloves, smashed and peeled 1 pound wild mushrooms, wiped off and cut into bite-size pieces (about 6 cups) One 5-ounce can oil-packed tuna, drained 1 pound green beans, trimmed 1 cup heavy cream 1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice ⅓ cup Dried Breadcrumbs Bring a large pot of water to a boil and add salt until it tastes like the sea. Meanwhile, add ¼ cup olive oil to a skillet that’s large enough to hold all the mushrooms and beans and still have some room to stir the ingredients. Add the garlic and cook slowly over medium heat to toast the garlic so it’s very soft, fragrant, and nicely golden brown—but not burnt—about 5 minutes. Scoop out the garlic and set it aside so it doesn’t burn. Increase the heat to medium-high and add the mushrooms. Season generously with pepper and salt and sauté, tossing frequently, until the mushrooms are nicely browned around the edges, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the tuna and toss to incorporate. Keep this warm until the green beans are ready. Add the beans to the boiling water and boil until they are just a bit beyond crisp-tender, 4 to 7 minutes. Drain them thoroughly in a colander and then add them to the mushrooms and tuna. Add the cream, toss all the ingredients to coat, and simmer until the cream has reduced to a nice cloaking consistency and all the flavors are nicely blended, 6 to 9 minutes. Add the lemon zest and lemon juice and toss. Taste and adjust with more salt, pepper, or lemon juice. When the flavors are delicious, pile into a serving bowl and top with the breadcrumbs.

Holmberg, Martha . Six Seasons: A New Way with Vegetables . Artisan. Kindle Edition. 


***
Curry Leaf Popcorn Chicken
https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/curry-leaf-popcorn-chicken

Notes:
1.  Half the recipe, but keep the curry leaves and cayenne high.
2.  Marinate much longer
3.  Use chicken tenders.


Ingredients
4–6 SERVINGS

Seeds from 4 green cardamom pods (about ¼ tsp. seeds)
2 tsp. coriander seeds
2 tsp. cumin seeds
¼ tsp. whole black peppercorns
2 cups buttermilk
¼ cup fresh lime juice
2–3 serrano chiles, coarsely chopped
6 scallions, roots removed, coarsely chopped
1 1" piece fresh ginger, peeled, chopped
4 garlic cloves
25 curry leaves, preferably fresh, divided
1 Tbsp. plus 1 tsp. kosher salt
1½ tsp. cayenne pepper, divided
2 lb. skinless, boneless chicken breasts, patted dry, cut into 1" pieces
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tsp. baking powder
½ tsp. baking soda
Neutral oil (for frying; about 4–6 cups)
4 green Thai chiles, seeded if desired


Preparation
Step 1
Heat a dry small skillet over medium-high. Toast cardamom seeds, coriander, cumin, and peppercorns, tossing often, until fragrant, about 1 minute. Transfer half of the spices to a spice mill or mortar and pestle and grind to a fine powder; set aside.

Step 2
Blend remaining whole spices, buttermilk, lime juice, serrano chiles, scallions, ginger, garlic, 15 curry leaves, 1 Tbsp. salt, and 1 tsp. cayenne in a blender until smooth. Transfer to a large resealable plastic bag. Add chicken, seal bag, and turn chicken to coat. Chill at least 4 hours and up to 8.

Step 3
Combine reserved ground spice mixture, flour, baking powder, baking soda, and remaining 1 tsp. salt and ½ tsp. cayenne in another large resealable bag. Finely chop remaining 10 curry leaves and add to bag. Shake vigorously to combine.

Step 4
Pour oil into a large heavy pot fitted with a deep-fry thermometer to a depth of 1½". Heat over medium-high until thermometer registers 350°.

Step 5
Meanwhile, remove one-third of the chicken from marinade, letting excess drip back into bag, and transfer to bag with flour mixture. Shake vigorously to evenly coat, then transfer chicken to a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet. Repeat with remaining chicken.

Step 6
Working in batches, fry chicken, turning often and adjusting heat to maintain oil temperature, until golden brown and cooked through, 6-8 minutes. Using a spider or slotted spoon, transfer to a wire rack set over paper towels to drain.

Step 7
Cut Thai chiles in half lengthwise. Add to hot oil along and fry until crispy, about 30 seconds. Drain on paper towels.

Step 8
Arrange chicken on a platter. Top with fried chiles.

***
DORAYAKI PANCAKES with blueberry cream
Sodha, Meera. East (p. 281). 

Notes:
Replace doriyaki recipe with this one: https://www.justonecookbook.com/dorayaki-japanese-red-bean-pancake/

Makes 6 sandwiches (12 pancakes) / 

For the blueberry cream
½ lb blueberries 
1½ tsp lemon juice 
¼ cup + 1 tsp superfine sugar 
1 cup (16 tbsp) mascarpone cheese [1 small container]

For the pancakes
1¼ cups all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp baking powder 
⅓ cup superfine sugar 
2 eggs 1 tbsp clear honey 
⅓ cup + 1 tbsp whole milk canola oil



1. First make the blueberry cream. Place the blueberries in a small saucepan and mash lightly with a potato masher. Add a tablespoon of water, the lemon juice, and sugar, and place over a low heat. 
2.  Cook for around 10 minutes, stirring regularly, until very sticky and all the moisture has evaporated. When you run a spoon across the bottom of the pan, there should be no liquid running from one side to the other. Transfer to a heatproof bowl to cool for 10 minutes, then combine with the mascarpone and place in the fridge. 
3.  To make the pancakes, mix all the dry ingredients together in a bowl. In a jug, mix the eggs, honey, and milk together, then pour into the dry ingredients. Stir well until there are no lumps in the batter. 
4.  Place a non-stick frying pan over a medium heat, wipe a little oil around the pan with a paper towel, and, when hot, drop 2 tablespoons of batter into the pan. Cook for 2 minutes, until the surface of the pancake has a lot of bubbles and the edges are dry, then flip over and cook for 30 seconds to a minute more. Transfer to a plate, and repeat until you have 12 pancakes. 
5.  To assemble the dorayaki, spread some blueberry cream on one pancake and place another pancake on top and lightly press down. Use the back of a spoon or a knife to smooth the edges of the cream if you wish, then press down the sides to seal, and serve.

Sodha, Meera. East (p. 281). Flatiron Books. Kindle Edition. 

***

Carrot dip
https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/smoky-carrot-dip


Ingredients
MAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS
½ cup skin-on almonds
2 lb. carrots, trimmed, peeled
2 Tbsp. plus ½ cup extra-virgin olive oil; plus more
2½ tsp. kosher salt, divided, plus more
2 garlic cloves
½ cup canned chickpeas
3 Tbsp. (or more) fresh lemon juice
1 tsp. freshly ground black pepper
¾ tsp. hot smoked Spanish paprika
½ cup coarsely chopped parsley, plus leaves for serving

Preparation
Step 1
Preheat oven to 350°. Toast almonds on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing halfway through, until slightly darkened and fragrant, 8–10 minutes. Let cool; set aside.

Step 2
Cut any thick carrots in half lengthwise, then slice all carrots crosswise into 4 pieces. Toss on a parchment-lined baking sheet with 2 Tbsp. oil and 1 tsp. salt. Spread carrots out evenly on baking sheet and roast, stirring once or twice, until very tender and starting to shrivel and brown (but not char), about 1 hour.

Step 3
Transfer carrots to a food processor; add garlic, chickpeas, lemon juice, pepper, paprika, chopped parsley, ½ cup oil, 1½ tsp. salt, and reserved almonds. Process, adding more oil as needed, until mixture is almost completely smooth. Taste dip and add more lemon juice and/or salt if needed.

Step 4
Transfer dip to a small bowl, drizzle with more oil, and top with parsley leaves.

Step 5
Do Ahead: Dip can be made 1 week ahead. Cover and chill.


***

SPICED PISTACHIOS
https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/spiced-pistachios

Ingredients
8 SERVINGS
5 large egg whites
½ cup sugar
1 tsp. thyme leaves
½ tsp. ground allspice
½ tsp. ground ginger
¼ tsp. cayenne pepper
4 dashes of Angostura bitters
1 lb. unsalted, shelled raw natural pistachios

Preparation
Step 1
Preheat oven to 350°. Whisk egg whites, ½ cup sugar, 1 tsp. thyme leaves, ½ tsp. ground allspice, ½ tsp. ground ginger, ¼ tsp. cayenne pepper, and 4 dashes of Angostura bitters in a medium bowl to blend. Fold in 1 lb. unsalted, shelled raw natural pistachios. Spread out on a rimmed baking sheet brushed with vegetable oil. Bake, stirring every 10 minutes, until golden brown and beginning to crisp, 30–35 minutes. Let cool on sheet on a wire rack. Nuts will crisp as they cool.

